I Use Linux; Get It Right
#########################
:desc: RMS is just too stuck on himself
:date: 2010-01-05 18:19
:tags: linux, gnu, open source, rant, overkill

WOW! I didn't expect this to be such a popular post. Honestly, I
recognise this as a rant both now and before posting. I'm impressed by
the number of people that were able to take a rant and make something
nice out of it.

== Begin Opening ==

I ventured onto the gnu.org website wanting to read what their licenses
actually were. In the process I decided that I should figure out what
GNU actually is. Aside from discovering that the FSF seems to be just a
source of income for GNU, I was quite disturbed.

I want to make very clear that I went into this with no bias in one way
or the other. It is only after all my research that I developed a very
strong opinion. I also want to say that a majority of my research was
done by reading pro-GNU information. I also asked about this in the #gnu
channel on Freenode. Below I'm giving my opinion on two specific
documents that bothered me in particular. Their text is cited verbatim
as well as links to the original.

# Documents are below the conclusion.

== Begin Conclusion ==

Instead of placing my conclusion at the very bottom it's going here.

If you don't want to read the whole thing, it boils down to GNU feeling
they thought of it first so their the originators of the Linux project
and all work belongs to them. However, I encourage you to actually read
it for yourself. Just follow the links, you don't need my opinions for
this.

After everything below I have no doubt that what we call "Linux" should
be "Linux" and NOT "GNU/Linux." I'm actually very certain that GNU
doesn't belong in the name of any operating system at this point. If
they can ever finish their own OS, then perhaps they can call that
system "GNU." Until then, they should realize their failures as
developers and as free software idealists. They should realize that they
can make a "GNU Linux" system that is stripped of anything they don't
like and realize that this is what theire "GNU system" is.

They claim we can't exist without them but that's wrong. Linux
distributions exist without any GNU software in them. They really need
to remove themselves from their communist beliefs and take a jump into
the real world.

00:00 GNU: No! I use "Linux" and I will never use "GNU/Linux." FOSS
belongs to everyone. Stop trying to claim the work of so many others as
your own.

== Begin Doc 1 ==

`Linux and the GNU Project`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Many computer users run a modified version of the GNU system every
    day, without realizing it. Through a peculiar turn of events, the
    version of GNU which is widely used today is often called "Linux",
    and many of its users are not aware that it is basically the GNU
    system, developed by the GNU Project.

Linux is a kernel. It's not GNU. You explain this later down but maybe
you should start with clarity.

    There really is a Linux, and these people are using it, but it is
    just a part of the system they use. Linux is the kernel: the program
    in the system that allocates the machine's resources to the other
    programs that you run. The kernel is an essential part of an
    operating system, but useless by itself; it can only function in the
    context of a complete operating system. Linux is normally used in
    combination with the GNU operating system: the whole system is
    basically GNU with Linux added, or GNU/Linux. All the so-called
    "Linux" distributions are really distributions of GNU/Linux.

    Many users do not understand the difference between the kernel,
    which is Linux, and the whole system, which they also call "Linux".
    The ambiguous use of the name doesn't help people understand. These
    users often think that Linus Torvalds developed the whole operating
    system in 1991, with a bit of help.

Since when is a set of programs an operating system? Unless you have
some magic system that runs without a kernel your "GNU operating system"
is useless by itself as well. Besides, a Linux based operating system
can run just fine without GNU programs.

Nobody thinks Linus developed all of the Linux based OS. Heck, most
people know that he didn't even write the entire Linux kernel himself.
The Linux kernel is a massive project with many very intelligent
programmers working on it.

    Programmers generally know that Linux is a kernel. But since they
    have generally heard the whole system called "Linux" as well, they
    often envisage a history that would justify naming the whole system
    after the kernel. For example, many believe that once Linus Torvalds
    finished writing Linux, the kernel, its users looked around for
    other free software to go with it, and found that (for no particular
    reason) most everything necessary to make a Unix-like system was
    already available.

    What they found was no accident-it was the not-quite-complete GNU
    system. The available free software added up to a complete system
    because the GNU Project had been working since 1984 to make one. In
    the The GNU Manifesto we set forth the goal of developing a free
    Unix-like system, called GNU. The Initial Announcement of the GNU
    Project also outlines some of the original plans for the GNU system.
    By the time Linux was started, GNU was almost finished.

    Most free software projects have the goal of developing a particular
    program for a particular job. For example, Linus Torvalds set out to
    write a Unix-like kernel (Linux); Donald Knuth set out to write a
    text formatter (TeX); Bob Scheifler set out to develop a window
    system (the X Window System). It's natural to measure the
    contribution of this kind of project by specific programs that came
    from the project.

Let's see here... You started in 1984, he started in 1991. I don't know
when he finished but I sure as heck hope that you're nearly complete
after 7 years. However, you're still not near being completed. I don't
know what you mean about measuring contributions by specific programs.
The specific programs are generally not very useful. I measure
contributions based on the community, not a single entity.

Most of this paragraph is pretty generic text though.

    If we tried to measure the GNU Project's contribution in this way,
    what would we conclude? One CD-ROM vendor found that in their "Linux
    distribution", GNU software was the largest single contingent,
    around 28% of the total source code, and this included some of the
    essential major components without which there could be no system.
    Linux itself was about 3%. (The proportions in 2008 are similar: in
    the "main" repository of gNewSense, Linux is 1.5% and GNU packages
    are 15%.) So if you were going to pick a name for the system based
    on who wrote the programs in the system, the most appropriate single
    choice would be "GNU".

You lack any source for this "28%." That doesn't matter because the
point is pretty irrelevant. Considering that you neglect a date, this
point is further irrelevant. If you really want to use % as a measure of
contribution and you can only contribute 15% GNU code to your "pure"
gNewSense system, that's pretty sad. You're saying that you only
contributed 15% to your own project and that's without even using your
own kernel.

    But that is not the deepest way to consider the question. The GNU
    Project was not, is not, a project to develop specific software
    packages. It was not a project to develop a C compiler, although we
    did that. It was not a project to develop a text editor, although we
    developed one. The GNU Project set out to develop a complete free
    Unix-like system: GNU.

Well, you have yet to produce this complete system. So to this point all
you have contributed to the FOSS community IS in fact just a set of
software packages. Don't get me wrong, these are great pieces of
software, but the point still stands.

    Many people have made major contributions to the free software in
    the system, and they all deserve credit for their software. But the
    reason it is an integrated system-and not just a collection of
    useful programs-is because the GNU Project set out to make it one.
    We made a list of the programs needed to make a complete free
    system, and we systematically found, wrote, or found people to write
    everything on the list. We wrote essential but unexciting (1)
    components because you can't have a system without them. Some of our
    system components, the programming tools, became popular on their
    own among programmers, but we wrote many components that are not
    tools (2). We even developed a chess game, GNU Chess, because a
    complete system needs games too.

    By the early 90s we had put together the whole system aside from the
    kernel. We had also started a kernel, the GNU Hurd, which runs on
    top of Mach. Developing this kernel has been a lot harder than we
    expected; the GNU Hurd started working reliably in 2001, but it is a
    long way from being ready for people to use in general.

I don't think the GNU project is the sole reason everything became an
integrated system. Your work sure helped immensely, but you aren't the
glue that sticks everything together. We have an integrated system
because countless developers and other contributers got together to
build a complete system. You wrote "essential but unexciting" software
applications and the world appreciates it. You have yet to develop your
own kernel and rely on Linux.

    Fortunately, we didn't have to wait for the Hurd, because of Linux.
    Once Torvalds wrote Linux, it fit into the last major gap in the GNU
    system. People could then combine Linux with the GNU system to make
    a complete free system: a Linux-based version of the GNU system; the
    GNU/Linux system, for short.

Perhaps it's the other way around. Perhaps Linux was developed knowing
GNU was working on other software. Perhaps they kept compatibility in
mind. It seems more that Linux was built in a way that would allow GNU
to "fit into" the Linux based OS. This little argument goes both ways
and is ineffective either way.

    Making them work well together was not a trivial job. Some GNU
    components(3) needed substantial change to work with Linux.
    Integrating a complete system as a distribution that would work "out
    of the box" was a big job, too. It required addressing the issue of
    how to install and boot the system-a problem we had not tackled,
    because we hadn't yet reached that point. Thus, the people who
    developed the various system distributions did a lot of essential
    work. But it was work that, in the nature of things, was surely
    going to be done by someone.

Hm.. So they didn't "just fit?" The fact that you're the one that needed
to recode your software makes me think the above argument leans more
toward the "Linux OS" side instead of the "GNU OS" side.

    The GNU Project supports GNU/Linux systems as well as the GNU
    system. The FSF funded the rewriting of the Linux-related extensions
    to the GNU C library, so that now they are well integrated, and the
    newest GNU/Linux systems use the current library release with no
    changes. The FSF also funded an early stage of the development of
    Debian GNU/Linux.

Stop referring to Linux as the "GNU/Linux system" and yours as the "GNU
system." GNU is a set of software packages and Linux is a kernel. Make
the distinction already. We get it, your foundation funded your work to
make your software applications usable on the Linux based OS.

    Today there are many different variants of the GNU/Linux system
    (often called "distros"). Most of them include non-free
    software-their developers follow the philosophy associated with
    Linux rather than that of GNU. But there are also completely free
    GNU/Linux distros. The FSF supports computer facilities for two of
    these distributions, Ututo and gNewSense.

This doesn't make much sense.

    Making a free GNU/Linux distribution is not just a matter of
    eliminating various non-free programs. Nowadays, the usual version
    of Linux contains non-free programs too. These programs are intended
    to be loaded into I/O devices when the system starts, and they are
    included, as long series of numbers, in the "source code" of Linux.
    Thus, maintaining free GNU/Linux distributions now entails
    maintaining a free version of Linux too.

So you took Linux and ripped out the parts you didn't like. That seems
kind of pointless. Maybe you should put that time into developing your
own elitist kernel instead of worrying about whether Linux follows your
idealist beliefs.S

    Whether you use GNU/Linux or not, please don't confuse the public by
    using the name "Linux" ambiguously. Linux is the kernel, one of the
    essential major components of the system. The system as a whole is
    basically the GNU system, with Linux added. When you're talking
    about this combination, please call it "GNU/Linux".

The whole system is more correctly the "Linux system" than it is the
"GNU system." The system I use isn't "basically the GNU system." What I
use is "the Linux based system." If you ever actually finish your kernel
and remove ALL software that isn't directly from GNU we can then, and
only then call your system "the GNU system."

    If you want to make a link on "GNU/Linux" for further reference,
    this page and http://www.gnu.org/gnu/the-gnu-project.html are
    good choices. If you mention Linux, the kernel, and want to add a
    link for further reference,
    http://foldoc.doc.ic.ac.uk/foldoc/foldoc.cgi?Linux is a good URL
    to use.

I'm not too interested in this segment.

    Addendum: Aside from GNU, one other project has independently
    produced a free Unix-like operating system. This system is known as
    BSD, and it was developed at UC Berkeley. It was non-free in the
    80s, but became free in the early 90s. A free operating system that
    exists today(4) is almost certainly either a variant of the GNU
    system, or a kind of BSD system.

    People sometimes ask whether BSD too is a version of GNU, like
    GNU/Linux. The BSD developers were inspired to make their code free
    software by the example of the GNU Project, and explicit appeals
    from GNU activists helped persuade them, but the code had little
    overlap with GNU. BSD systems today use some GNU programs, just as
    the GNU system and its variants use some BSD programs; however,
    taken as wholes, they are two different systems that evolved
    separately. The BSD developers did not write a kernel and add it to
    the GNU system, and a name like GNU/BSD would not fit the
    situation.(5)

"the code had little overlap with GNU" Let's be honest. not much code
you produced is even used in the Linux system. Not even your own "GNU
system" uses much GNU software.

"The BSD developers did not write a kernel and add it to the GNU system"
The Linux developers didn't do this either. You modified your code to
work with Linux, not the other way around. You specifically stated this
above.

== Begin Doc 2 ==

On to their "FAQ." This is a LONG one full of crap.

`GNU/Linux FAQ by Richard Stallman`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Why do you call it GNU/Linux and not Linux?

    Most operating system distributions based on Linux as kernel are
    basically modified versions of the GNU operating system. We began
    developing GNU in 1984, years before Linus Torvalds started to write
    his kernel. Our goal was to develop a complete free operating
    system. Of course, we did not develop all the parts ourselves-but we
    led the way. We developed most of the central components, forming
    the largest single contribution to the whole system. The basic
    vision was ours too.

    In fairness, we ought to get at least equal mention.

    See Linux and the GNU Project and GNU Users Who Have Never Heard of
    GNU for more explanation, and The GNU Project for the history.

See the document I ranted about above this...

    Why is the name important?

    Although the developers of Linux, the kernel, are contributing to
    the free software community, many of them do not care about freedom.
    People who think the whole system is Linux tend to get confused and
    assign to those developers a role in the history of our community
    which they did not actually play. Then they give inordinate weight
    to those developers' views.

    Calling the system GNU/Linux recognizes the role that our idealism
    played in building our community, and helps the public recognize the
    practical importance of these ideals.

It seems you care about is the system being referred to as GNU for the
sole purpose of making your views have as much weight as possible. In
reality, the FOSS community has no real single view. The only views that
dictate what happens are the views of those that direct projects. If
Linus has a view of a fully free kernel, the mainline kernel would do
this. If I want Ubuntu-Drupal to pursue a project that's within my view,
it'll happen. There's no single entity that controls the whole view of
FOSS.

    How did it come about that most people call the system "Linux"?

    Calling the system "Linux" is a confusion that has spread faster
    than the corrective information.

    The people who combined Linux with the GNU system were not aware
    that that's what their activity amounted to. They focused their
    attention on the piece that was Linux and did not realize that more
    of the combination was GNU. They started calling it "Linux" even
    though that name did not fit what they had. It took a few years for
    us to realize what a problem this was and ask people to correct the
    practice. By that time, the confusion had a big head start.

    Most of the people who call the system "Linux" have never heard why
    that's not the right thing. They saw others using that name and
    assume it must be right. The name "Linux" also spreads a false
    picture of the system's origin, because people tend to suppose that
    the system's history was such as to fit that name. For instance,
    they often believe its development was started by Linus Torvalds in
    1991. This false picture tends to reinforce the idea that the system
    should be called "Linux".

    Many of the questions in this file represent people's attempts to
    justify the name they are accustomed to using.

Linus very clearly stated when Linux started what his intentions were.
In fact, when he started nearing it's first public release he said that
he didn't expect it to ever be as big as anything like GNU. He (not you)
ported gcc and bash to work with it. Why? He did this because you
created some FOSS applications that he could use to make Linux do
something useful. So from that standpoint Linux is the starting point
and by your statement should be called Linux.

    Should we always say "GNU/Linux" instead of "Linux"?

    Not always-only when you're talking about the whole system. When
    you're referring specifically to the kernel, you should call it
    "Linux", the name its developer chose.

    When people call the whole system "Linux", as a consequence they
    call the whole system by the same name as the kernel. This causes
    many kinds of confusion, because only experts can tell whether a
    statement is about the kernel or the whole system. By calling the
    whole system "GNU/Linux", and calling the kernel "Linux", you avoid
    the ambiguity.

BSD uses the BSD kernel and is called BSD. Linux uses the Linux kernel
and is called Linux. GNU uses the Linux kernel and is called GNU/Linux.
My system uses the Linux kernel and I call it Linux. If you ever finish
the GNU kernel perhaps you could make a system and call it GNU and leave
Linux users alone.

    Would Linux have achieved the same success if there had been no GNU?

    In that alternative world, there would be nothing today like the
    GNU/Linux system, and probably no free operating system at all. No
    one attempted to develop a free operating system in the 1980s except
    the GNU Project and (later) Berkeley CSRG, which had been
    specifically asked by the GNU Project to start freeing its code.

    Linus Torvalds was partly influenced by a speech about GNU in
    Finland in 1990. It's possible that even without this influence he
    might have written a Unix-like kernel, but it probably would not
    have been free software. Linux became free in 1992 when Linus
    rereleased it under the GNU GPL. (See the release notes for version
    0.12.)

    Even if Torvalds had released Linux under some other free software
    license, a free kernel alone would not have made much difference to
    the world. The significance of Linux came from fitting into a larger
    framework, a complete free operating system: GNU/Linux.

As previously mentioned; the kernel wasn't fitted into anything. Other
things were fitted into it. The statement above is pretty accurate for
information. However, there is also alot of speculation. There is no
evidence that Linus was influenced by GNU altough this is highly
possible. There is also no evidence that suggests Linux would not have
been able to take off without GNU. In all honesty, I feel that the lack
of GNU would only have made Linux not take off as fast as it did. It
would most likely just have come out with the growth of Windows instead.

    Wouldn't it be better for the community if you did not divide people
    with this request?

    When we ask people to say "GNU/Linux", we are not dividing people.
    We are asking them to give the GNU Project credit for the GNU
    operating system. This does not criticize anyone or push anyone
    away.

    However, there are people who do not like our saying this. Sometimes
    those people push us away in response. On occasion they are so rude
    that one wonders if they are intentionally trying to intimidate us
    into silence. It doesn't silence us, but it does tend to divide the
    community, so we hope you can convince them to stop.

    However, this is only a secondary cause of division in our
    community. The largest division in the community is between people
    who appreciate free software as a social and ethical issue and
    consider proprietary software a social problem (supporters of the
    free software movement), and those who cite only practical benefits
    and present free software only as an efficient development model
    (the open source movement).

    This disagreement is not just a matter of names-it is a matter of
    differing basic values. It is essential for the community to see and
    think about this disagreement. The names "free software" and "open
    source" are the banners of the two positions. See Why Open Source
    misses the point of Free Software.

    The disagreement over values partially aligns with the amount of
    attention people pay to the GNU Project's role in our community.
    People who value freedom are more likely to call the system
    "GNU/Linux", and people who learn that the system is "GNU/Linux" are
    more likely to pay attention to our philosophical arguments for
    freedom and community (which is why the choice of name for the
    system makes a real difference for society). However, the
    disagreement would probably exist even if everyone knew the system's
    real origin and its proper name, because the issue is a real one. It
    can only go away if we who value freedom either persuade everyone
    (which won't be easy) or are defeated entirely (let's hope not).

The hell you're not dividing people! Go out on IRC for just a short
while. Go into #gnu onf Freenode and try to discuss this; prepare to be
flamed heavily. This is the worst offendor as discussion in other
channels can be somewhat open. However, there is a very clear line
between who is on what side. The biggest division in the community is
not "supporters of the free software movement" vs. "the open source
movement." In fact, these two groups are commonly just grouped into the
"FOSS community." Those that call their systems Linux tend to not even
see this line you refer to; when they do they tend to ignore it
completely. They do however still see the very clear line between (GNU,
GNU/Linux) vs. (Linux).

You're acting as if the whole world is out against you. In my view, it
seems you're really just out against the world. Maybe you should start
fighting the world and listen to it. There's obviously something you're
doin wrong. You go so far as to blame any divisions in the community on
those who don't share your view.

    Doesn't the GNU project support an individual's free speech rights
    to call the system by any name that individual chooses?

    Yes, indeed, we believe you have a free speech right to call the
    operating system by any name you wish. We ask that people call it
    GNU/Linux as a matter of doing justice to the GNU project, to
    promote the values of freedom that GNU stands for, and to inform
    others that those values of freedom brought the system into
    existence.

It isn't you that brought the system into existance. If you stop trying
to attribute the existance of an entire system to your own doing perhaps
you could take a step back and see where your real contributions lie.

    Since everyone knows GNU's role in developing the system, doesn't
    the "GNU/" in the name go without saying?

    Experience shows that the system's users, and the computer-using
    public in general, often know nothing about the GNU system. Most
    articles about the system do not mention the name "GNU", or the
    ideals that GNU stands for. GNU Users Who Have Never Heard of GNU
    explains further.

    The people who say this are probably geeks thinking of the geeks
    they know. Geeks often do know about GNU, but many have a completely
    wrong idea of what GNU is. For instance, many think it is a
    collection of "tools", or a project to develop tools.

    The wording of this question, which is typical, illustrates another
    common misconception. To speak of "GNU's role" in developing
    something assumes that GNU is a group of people. GNU is an operating
    system. It would make sense to talk about the GNU Project's role in
    this or some other activity, but not that of GNU.

GNU IS NOT an operating system. You spend too much time putting effort
into making sure everyone shares your own beliefs and not enough time
finishing it. Finish it, remove any other non-GNU software, and shut up
about it already.

    Since I know the role of GNU in this system, why does it matter what
    name I use?

    If your words don't reflect your knowledge, you don't teach others.
    Most people who have heard of the GNU/Linux system think it is
    "Linux", that it was started by Linus Torvalds, and that it was
    intended to be "open source". If you don't tell them, who will?

Linux was started by Linus Torvalds. It was aintended to be and still is
open source. If I want to patch it then I do it. If I want to review the
code then I do it. There are times where closed source code is included
in the Linux kernel and this is because they want Linux to be usable by
anyone. Perhaps this is a view you should adopt as well.

    Isn't shortening "GNU/Linux" to "Linux" just like shortening
    "Microsoft Windows" to "Windows"?

    It's useful to shorten a frequently-used name, but not if the
    abbreviation is misleading.

    Most everyone in developed countries really does know that the
    "Windows" system is made by Microsoft, so shortening "Microsoft
    Windows" to "Windows" does not mislead anyone as to that system's
    nature and origin. Shortening "GNU/Linux" to "Linux" does give the
    wrong idea of where the system comes from.

    The question is itself misleading because GNU and Microsoft are not
    the same kind of thing. Microsoft is a company; GNU is an operating
    system.

I agree here, shortening "GNU/Linux" to "GNU" is not correct. "GNU"
doesn't belong there in the first place so there is no shortening that
should take place. "Microsoft" is the company that owns Windows. That is
the reason shortening to "Windows" is acceptable. What is to stop us
from thinking your goal is to take the appearance of owning the Linux
based operating system? It sure seems that's what your goal is.

    Isn't GNU a collection of programming tools that were included in
    Linux?

    People who think that Linux is an entire operating system, if they
    hear about GNU at all, often get a wrong idea of what GNU is. They
    may think that GNU is the name of a collection of programs-often
    they say "programming tools", since some of our programming tools
    became popular on their own. The idea that "GNU" is the name of an
    operating system is hard to fit into a conceptual framework in which
    that operating system is labeled "Linux".

    The GNU Project was named after the GNU operating system-it's the
    project to develop the GNU system. (See the 1983 initial
    announcement.)

    We developed programs such as GCC, GNU Emacs, GAS, GLIBC, BASH,
    etc., because we needed them for the GNU operating system. GCC, the
    GNU Compiler Collection is the compiler that we wrote for the GNU
    operating system. We, the many people working on the GNU Project,
    developed Ghostscript, GNUCash, GNU Chess and GNOME for the GNU
    system too.

Now now, that's not how I feel. GNU isn't just a set of prgramming
tools. You developed other things as well. Emacs is really just an
abomination to editors. You guys made bash, and some other very useful
tools and the world appreciates that. On the other hand, we don't
appreciate your little pitty party.

    What is the difference between an operating system and a kernel?

    An operating system, as we use the term, means a collection of
    programs that are sufficient to use the computer to do a wide
    variety of jobs. A general purpose operating system, to be complete,
    ought to handle all the jobs that many users may want to do.

    The kernel is one of the programs in an operating system-the program
    that allocates the machine's resources to the other programs that
    are running. The kernel also takes care of starting and stopping
    other programs.

    To confuse matters, some people use the term "operating system" to
    mean "kernel". Both uses of the term go back many years. The use of
    "operating system" to mean "kernel" is found in a number of
    textbooks on system design, going back to the 80s. At the same time,
    in the 80s, the "Unix operating system" was understood to include
    all the system programs, and Berkeley's version of Unix included
    even games. Since we intended GNU to be a Unix-like operating
    system, we use the term "operating system" in the same way.

    Most of the time when people speak of the "Linux operating system"
    they are using "operating system" in the same sense we use: they
    mean the whole collection of programs. If that's what you are
    referring to, please call it "GNU/Linux". If you mean just the
    kernel, then "Linux" is the right name for it, but please say
    "kernel" also to avoid ambiguity about which body of software you
    mean.

    If you prefer to use some other term such as "system distribution"
    for the entire collection of programs, instead of "operating
    system", that's fine. Then you would talk about GNU/Linux system
    distributions.

I went through and easily ripped all GNU apps out from various operating
system. So, what should I call it now? I can't call it "GNU/Linux"
because GNU isn't part of the system at all. I also can't call it
"Linux" by your whole rant. What can I call it then? The fact of the
matter is that either way Linux is still the core and the system should
be called "Linux" either way.

    The kernel of a system is like the foundation of a house. How can a
    house be almost complete when it doesn't have a foundation?

    A kernel is not much like the foundation of a house because building
    an operating system is not much like building a house.

    A house is built from lots of little general parts that are cut and
    put together in situ. They have to be put together from the bottom
    up. Thus, when the foundation has not been built, no substantial
    part has been built; all you have is a hole in the ground.

    By contrast, an operating system consists of complex components that
    can be developed in any order. When you have developed most of the
    components, most of the work is done. This is much more like the
    International Space Station than like a house. If most of the Space
    Station modules were in orbit but awaiting one other essential
    module, that would be like the GNU system in 1992.

You mean it would be useless? I'm wondering why you seem to think the
GNU software applications are the cornerstone of the operating system. A
Linux system can easily exist without GNU. However, the same can't be
said about the other way around. The "GNU system" does not exist without
GNU. GNU advocates are very clear that they feel their system is
complete even though they can not function without the Linux kernel or
the efforts of countless other developers.

    Isn't the kernel the brain of the system?

    A computer system is not much like a human body, and no part of it
    plays a role comparable to that of the brain in a human.

The kernel isn't the brain. It's a very vital part that without no
operating system will function. Without GNU the system would still
function and the gaps that were filled by GNU would be filled again.

    Isn't writing the kernel most of the work in an operating system?

    No, many components take a lot of work.

What does this have to do with anything you're talking about?

    We're calling the whole system after the kernel, Linux. Isn't it
    normal to name an operating system after a kernel?

    That practice seems to be very rare-we can't find any examples other
    than the misuse of the name "Linux". Normally an operating system is
    developed as a single unified project, and the developers choose a
    name for the system as a whole. The kernel usually does not have a
    name of its own-instead, people say "the kernel of such-and-such" or
    "the such-and-such kernel".

    Because those two constructions are used synonymously, the
    expression "the Linux kernel" can easily be misunderstood as meaning
    "the kernel of Linux" and implying that Linux must be more than a
    kernel. You can avoid the possibility of this misunderstanding by
    saying or writing "the kernel, Linux" or "Linux, the kernel."

What about BSD, FreeBSD, OpenBSD, NetBSD, \*BSD. These were all named
for their kernels. Microsof Windows uses two names for its kernel and
one of those is the "Windows kernel." You're basically saying you want
us to say "The kernel of Ubuntu," and ignore Linux where Linux is the
kernel underneath. Just like the Linux kernel is what sits underneath
your own system.

    The problem with "GNU/Linux" is that it is too long. How about
    recommending a shorter name?

    For a while we tried the name "LiGNUx", which combines the words
    "GNU" and "Linux". The reaction was very bad. People accept
    "GNU/Linux" much better.

    The shortest legitimate name for this system is "GNU", but we call
    it "GNU/Linux" for the reasons given below.

I found something online that describes this best...

Dr. G.W. Wettstein wrote:

> On Mar 7, 11:52am, Bill Powers wrote:

> > What we need is a short, catchy, name that encompasses all of the
above...

> >

> > LIGNUX !

>

> Catchy idea actually.

>

> The question to ask is do we want to go through the debacle of

> describing it's pronunciation.....

Short i, silent g, long u. Just like Linus pronounces it now.

    Since Linux is a secondary contribution, would it be false to the
    facts to call the system simply "GNU"?

    It would not be false to the facts, but it is not the best thing to
    do. Here are the reasons we call that system version "GNU/Linux"
    rather than just "GNU":

    It's not exactly GNU-it has a different kernel (that is, Linux).
    Distinguishing GNU/Linux from GNU is useful.

    It would be ungentlemanly to ask people to stop giving any credit to
    Linus Torvalds. He did write an important component of the system.
    We want to get credit for launching and sustaining the system's
    development, but this doesn't mean we should treat Linus the same
    way those who call the system "Linux" treat us. We strongly disagree
    with his political views, but we deal with that disagreement
    honorably and openly, rather than by trying to cut him out of the
    credit for his contribution to the system.

    Since many people know of the system as "Linux", if we say "GNU"
    they may simply not recognize we're talking about the same system.
    If we say "GNU/Linux", they can make a connection to what they have
    heard about.

So now Linux is just a secondary contribution to your own work? You
launched and maintain everything? I'm going to go with "No" on those.

    I would have to pay a fee if I use "Linux" in the name of a product,
    and that would also apply if I say "GNU/Linux". Is it wrong if I use
    "GNU" without "Linux", to save the fee?

    There's nothing wrong in calling the system "GNU"; basically, that's
    what it is. It is nice to give Linus Torvalds a share of the credit
    as well, but you have no obligation to pay for the privilege of
    doing so.

    So if you want to refer to the system simply as "GNU", to avoid
    paying the fee for calling it "Linux", we won't criticize you.

Since when is there a fee to put the word "Linux" on a system that's
running Linux? Last I checked Linux allows this pretty freely.

    Many other projects contributed to the system as it is today; it
    includes TeX, X11, Apache, Perl, and many more programs. Don't your
    arguments imply we have to give them credit too? (But that would
    lead to a name so long it is absurd.)

    What we say is that you ought to give the system's principal
    developer a share of the credit. The principal developer is the GNU
    Project, and the system is basically GNU.

    If you feel even more strongly about giving credit where it is due,
    you might feel that some secondary contributors also deserve credit
    in the system's name. If so, far be it from us to argue against it.
    If you feel that X11 deserves credit in the system's name, and you
    want to call the system GNU/X11/Linux, please do. If you feel that
    Perl simply cries out for mention, and you want to write
    GNU/Linux/Perl, go ahead.

    Since a long name such as
    GNU/X11/Apache/Linux/TeX/Perl/Python/FreeCiv becomes absurd, at some
    point you will have to set a threshold and omit the names of the
    many other secondary contributions. There is no one obvious right
    place to set the threshold, so wherever you set it, we won't argue
    against it.

    Different threshold levels would lead to different choices of name
    for the system. But one name that cannot result from concerns of
    fairness and giving credit, not for any possible threshold level, is
    "Linux". It can't be fair to give all the credit to one secondary
    contribution (Linux) while omitting the principal contribution
    (GNU).

I drew a line and it stands as my threshold. I happened to fraw that
line at "Linux." Nothing more, nothing less. I honestly don't care where
the credit is due. The system runs on Linux and that's what it should be
called. I have no interest in giving credit to individual contributors.
I give that credit instead to the FOSS community which is where it
belongs.

    Many other projects contributed to the system as it is today, but
    they don't insist on calling it XYZ/Linux. Why should we treat GNU
    specially?

    Thousands of projects have developed programs commonly included in
    today's GNU/Linux systems. They all deserve credit for their
    contributions, but they aren't the principal developers of the
    system as a whole, so they don't ask to be credited as such.

    GNU is different because it is more than just a contributed program,
    more than just a collection of contributed programs. GNU is the
    framework on which the system was made.

GNU isn't a framework. It is a set of applications. These applications
were then ported to be able to run on Linux which was not even the
original doing of GNU. Linus himself made the first ports. I don't
believe you gave him any credit for that at all.

    GNU is a small fraction of the system nowadays, so why should we
    mention it?

    In 2008, we found that GNU packages made up 15% of the "main"
    repository of the gNewSense GNU/Linux distribution. Linux made up
    1.5%. So the same argument would apply even more strongly to calling
    it "Linux".

    GNU is a small fraction of the system nowadays, and Linux is an even
    smaller fraction. But they are the system's core; the system was
    made by combining them. Thus, the name "GNU/Linux" remains
    appropriate.

This doesn't mean anything. A count of GNU apps in the GNU Main
repository doesn't mean anything to us in Linux land. For all we care
you could limit your "main" repository to GNU software only and make
that 15% into 100%. We still don't care. That's not how we in FOSS land
measure contributions. You should check it out sometime. It's really
nice when you realize the difference. Besides, you already mentioned
you've been stripping down the kernel. How are we supposed to interpret
that with this?

    Many companies contributed to the system as it is today; doesn't
    that mean we ought to call it GNU/Redhat/Novell/Linux?

    GNU is not comparable to Red Hat or Novell; it is not a company, or
    an organization, or even an activity. GNU is an operating system.
    (When we speak of the GNU Project, that refers to the project to
    develop the GNU system.) The GNU/Linux system is based on GNU, and
    that's why GNU ought to appear in its name.

    Much of those companies' contribution to the GNU/Linux system lies
    in the code they have contributed to various GNU packages including
    GCC and GNOME. Saying GNU/Linux gives credit to those companies
    along with all the rest of the GNU developers.

By you're definition above, GNU is not an operating system. Then we're
back to beating that old dead horse. I think I've repeated myself with
the GNU repitions enough that you know where I stand. GNU is not an
operating system and unless you actually take your effort away from
whining it never will be.

    Why do you write "GNU/Linux" instead of "GNU Linux"?

    Following the rules of English, in the construction "GNU Linux" the
    word "GNU" modifies "Linux". This can mean either "GNU's version of
    Linux" or "Linux, which is a GNU package." Neither of those meanings
    fits the situation at hand.

    Linux is not a GNU package; that is, it wasn't developed under the
    GNU Project's aegis or contributed specifically to the GNU Project.
    Linus Torvalds wrote Linux independently, as his own project. So the
    "Linux, which is a GNU package" meaning is not right.

    We're not talking about a distinct GNU version of Linux, the kernel.
    The free GNU/Linux distros do have a separate version of Linux,
    since the "standard" version contains non-free firmware "blobs". If
    this were part of the GNU Project, it could be considered "GNU
    Linux"; but we would not want to call it that, because it would be
    too confusing.

    We're talking about a version of GNU, the operating system,
    distinguished by having Linux as the kernel. A slash fits the
    situation because it means "combination." (Think of "Input/Output".)
    This system is the combination of GNU and Linux; hence, "GNU/Linux".

    There are other ways to express "combination". If you think that a
    plus-sign is clearer, please use that. In French, a hyphen is clear:
    "GNU-Linux". In Spanish, we sometimes say "GNU con Linux".

Actually this is quite funny. How about you refer to your system as "GNU
Linux" because your applications are modifying what we did. We'll
continue with "Linux" as all of FOSS modifies it. I guess you could call
us the "FOSS/Linux" if you really really want. Just "Linux" still makes
more sense.

    Why "GNU/Linux" rather than "Linux/GNU"?

    It is right and proper to mention the principal contribution first.
    The GNU contribution to the system is not only bigger than Linux and
    prior to Linux, we actually started the whole activity.

    However, if you prefer to call the system "Linux/GNU", that is a lot
    better than what people usually do, which is to omit GNU entirely
    and make it seem that the whole system is Linux.

Considering Linus started Linux and GNU applications need to be ported
to Linux. I'll still consider GNU the secondary contributor. So Linux
should come first. Not only that, but I still lack any reason to believe
GNU belongs in the name.

    My distro is called "Foobar Linux"; doesn't that show it's really
    Linux?

    It means that the people who make the "Foobar Linux" distro are
    repeating the common mistake.

    My distro's official name is "Foobar Linux"; isn't it wrong to call
    the distro anything but "Linux"?

    If it's allowed for them to change "GNU" to "Foobar Linux", it's
    allowed for you to change it back and call the distro "Foobar
    GNU/Linux". It can't be more wrong to correct the mistake than it
    was to make the mistake.

If you had any real say in the matter, you wouldn't allow "GNU" to be
referred to as anything with the word Linux in it. The distribution
maker decided to name it what they felt like because Linux allows this
to be done.

    Wouldn't it be more effective to ask companies such as Mandrake, Red
    Hat and IBM to call their distributions "GNU/Linux" rather than
    asking individuals?

    It isn't a choice of one or the other-we ask companies and
    organizations and individuals to help spread the word about this. In
    fact, we have asked all three of those companies. Mandrake said it
    would use the term "GNU/Linux" some of the time, but IBM and Red Hat
    were unwilling to help. One executive said, "This is a pure
    commercial decision; we expect to make more money calling it
    ‘Linux’." In other words, that company did not care what was right.

    We can't make them do this right, but we're not the sort to give up
    just because the road isn't easy. You may not have as much influence
    at your disposal as IBM or Red Hat, but you can still help.

So you couldn't convince the big guys to make the little guys listen so
now you want to convince the little guys to force the big guys listen.
Kind of interesting. To be honest IBM has provided a much more
substantial contribution to FOSS than GNU. If we need to decide between
IBM or GNU to pick the name we use, I'll pick IBM.

    Together we can change the situation to the point where companies
    will make more profit calling it "GNU/Linux".

    Wouldn't it be better to reserve the name "GNU/Linux" for
    distributions that are purely free software? After all, that is the
    ideal of GNU.

    The widespread practice of adding non-free software to the GNU/Linux
    system is a major problem for our community. It teaches the users
    that non-free software is ok, and that using it is part of the
    spirit of "Linux". Many "Linux" User Groups make it part of their
    mission to help users use non-free add-ons, and may even invite
    salesmen to come and make sales pitches for them. They adopt goals
    such as "helping the users" of GNU/Linux (including helping them use
    non-free applications and drivers), or making the system more
    popular even at the cost of freedom.

    The question is how to try to change this.

    Given that most of the community which uses GNU with Linux already
    does not realize that's what it is, for us to disown these
    adulterated versions, saying they are not really GNU, would not
    teach the users to value freedom more. They would not get the
    intended message. They would only respond they never thought these
    systems were GNU in the first place.

    The way to lead these users to see a connection with freedom is
    exactly the opposite: to inform them that all these system versions
    are versions of GNU, that they all are based on a system that exists
    specifically for the sake of the users' freedom. With this
    understanding, they can start to recognize the distributions that
    include non-free software as perverted, adulterated versions of GNU,
    instead of thinking they are proper and appropriate "versions of
    Linux".

    It is very useful to start GNU/Linux User Groups, which call the
    system GNU/Linux and adopt the ideals of the GNU Project as a basis
    for their activities. If the Linux User Group in your area has the
    problems describe above, we suggest you either campaign within the
    group to change its orientation (and name) or start a new group. The
    people who focus on the more superficial goals have a right to their
    views, but don't let them drag you along!

That's actually a good idea. Save "GNU/Linux" for something that fits
into your elite view. That would be what? "gNewSense GNU/Linux"

You mention not letting people focusing on superficial goals drag us
along. Very well then, we won't let you drag us along. As a matter of
fact I should probably listen and stop reading right now. I won't, I'm
going to see what other crap you have to say.

    Why not make a GNU distribution of Linux (sic) and call that
    GNU/Linux?

    All the "Linux" distributions are actually versions of the GNU
    system with Linux as the kernel. The purpose of the term "GNU/Linux"
    is to communicate this point. To develop one new distribution and
    call that alone "GNU/Linux" would obscure the point we want to make.

    As for developing a distribution of GNU/Linux, we already did this
    once, when we funded the early development of Debian GNU/Linux. To
    do it again now does not seem useful; it would be a lot of work, and
    unless the new distribution had substantial practical advantages
    over other distributions, it would serve no purpose.

    Instead we help the developers of 100% free GNU/Linux distributions,
    such as gNewSense and Ututo.

Back to that beaten dead and rotting horse. You have yet to make a GNU
operating system.

    Why not just say "Linux is the GNU kernel" and release some existing
    version of GNU/Linux under the name "GNU"?

    It might have been a good idea to adopt Linux as the GNU kernel back
    in 1992. If we had realized, then, how long it would take to get the
    GNU Hurd to work, we might have done that. (Alas, that is
    hindsight.)

    If we were to take an existing version of GNU/Linux and relabel it
    as "GNU", that would be somewhat like making a version of the GNU
    system and labeling it "Linux". That wasn't right, and we don't want
    to act like that.

You have yet to make Hurd a widely released product. You're perhaps not
capable? Linus built the first kernel himself. He clearly stated what it
was capable of and that he didn't expect it to go furhter. His code was
then in a position to be lifted up by a community that made it what it
is today. Why is it that you can't get your kernel working? I would
assume because you're either too busy whining, you're too busy tearing
at Linux to make it fit your needs, or because you're not capable of
doing it in the first place.

    Did the GNU Project condemn and oppose use of Linux in the early
    days?

    We did not adopt Linux as our kernel, but we didn't condemn or
    oppose it. In 1993 we started discussing the arrangements to sponsor
    the development of Debian GNU/Linux. We also sought to cooperate
    with the people who were changing some GNU packages for use with
    Linux. We wanted to include their changes in the standard releases
    so that these GNU packages would work out-of-the-box in combination
    with Linux. But the changes were often ad-hoc and nonportable; they
    needed to be cleaned up for installation.

    The people who had made the changes showed little interest in
    cooperating with us. One of them actually told us that he didn't
    care about working with the GNU Project because he was a "Linux
    user". That came as a shock, because the people who ported GNU
    packages to other systems had generally wanted to work with us to
    get their changes installed. Yet these people, developing a system
    that was primarily based on GNU, were the first (and still
    practically the only) group that was unwilling to work with us.

    It was this experience that first showed us that people were calling
    a version of the GNU system "Linux", and that this confusion was
    obstructing our work. Asking you to call the system "GNU/Linux" is
    our response to that problem, and to the other problems caused by
    the "Linux" misnomer.

I don't really believe you. After all your current whining and ranting
it's very likely they were entirely turned off by your attitude. I need
to hilight this though. **"who ported GNU packages to other systems"**
Right here you are admitting that GNU is being ported to other systems.
That system that you're complaining about is the Linux system. Read
this... this fact is plainly stated right here.

    Why did you wait so long before asking people to use the name
    GNU/Linux?

    Actually we didn't. We began talking privately with developers and
    distributors about this in 1994, and made a more public campaign in
    1996. We will continue for as long as it's necessary.

Dead Horse... Not repeating this yet again...

    Should the GNU/name convention be applied to all programs that are
    GPL'ed?

    We never refer to individual programs as "GNU/name". When a program
    is a GNU package, we may call it "GNU name".

    GNU, the operating system, is made up of many different programs.
    Some of the programs in GNU were written as part of the GNU Project
    or specifically contributed to it; these are the GNU packages, and
    we often use "GNU" in their names.

    It's up to the developers of a program to decide if they want to
    contribute it and make it a GNU package. If you have developed a
    program and you would like it to be a GNU package, please write to ,
    so we can evaluate it and decide whether we want it.

    It wouldn't be fair to put the name GNU on every individual program
    that is released under the GPL. If you write a program and release
    it under the GPL, that doesn't mean the GNU Project wrote it or that
    you wrote it for us. For instance, the kernel, Linux, is released
    under the GNU GPL, but Linus did not write it as part of the GNU
    Project-he did the work independently. If something is not a GNU
    package, the GNU Project can't take credit for it, and putting "GNU"
    in its name would be improper.

    In contrast, we do deserve the overall credit for the GNU operating
    system as a whole, even though not for each and every program in it.
    The system exists as a system because of our determination and
    persistence, starting in 1984, many years before Linux was begun.

    The operating system in which Linux became popular was basically the
    same as the GNU operating system. It was not entirely the same,
    because it had a different kernel, but it was mostly the same
    system. It was a variant of GNU. It was the GNU/Linux system.

    Linux continues to be used primarily in derivatives of that
    system-in today's versions of the GNU/Linux system. What gives these
    systems their identity is GNU and Linux at the center of them, not
    particularly Linux alone.

    Since much of GNU comes from Unix, shouldn't GNU give credit to Unix
    by using "Unix" in its name?

    Actually, none of GNU comes from Unix. Unix was proprietary software
    (and still is), so using any of its code in GNU would have been
    illegal. This is not a coincidence; this is why we developed GNU:
    since you could not have freedom in using Unix, or any of the other
    operating systems of the day, we needed a free system to replace it.
    We could not copy programs, or even parts of them, from Unix;
    everything had to be written afresh.

    No code in GNU comes from Unix, but GNU is a Unix-compatible system;
    therefore, many of the ideas and specifications of GNU do come from
    Unix. The name "GNU", which stands for "GNU's Not Unix", is a
    humorous way of giving credit to Unix for this, following a hacker
    tradition of recursive acronyms that started in the 70s.

    The first such recursive acronym was TINT, "TINT Is Not TECO". The
    author of TINT wrote another implementation of TECO (there were
    already many of them, for various systems), but instead of calling
    it by a dull name like "somethingorother TECO", he thought of a
    clever amusing name. (That's what hacking means: playful
    cleverness.)

    Other hackers enjoyed that name so much that we imitated the
    approach. It became a tradition that, when you were writing from
    scratch a program that was similar to some existing program (let's
    imagine its name was "Klever"), you could give it a recursive
    acronym name, such as "MINK" for "MINK Is Not Klever." In this same
    spirit we called our replacement for Unix "GNU's Not Unix".

    Historically, AT&T which developed Unix did not want anyone to give
    it credit by using "Unix" in the name of a similar system, not even
    in a system 99% copied from Unix. AT&T actually threatened to sue
    anyone giving AT&T credit in that way. This is why each of the
    various modified versions of Unix (all proprietary, like Unix) had a
    completely different name that didn't include "Unix".

This entire block has absolutely nothing to do with what you're
complaining about. This is only why you don't think it should be
"Unix/GNU" instead.

    Should we say "GNU/BSD" too?

    We don't call the BSD systems (FreeBSD, etc.) "GNU/BSD" systems,
    because that term does not fit the history of the BSD systems.

    The BSD system was developed by UC Berkeley as non-free software in
    the 80s, and became free in the early 90s. A free operating system
    that exists today is almost certainly either a variant of the GNU
    system, or a kind of BSD system.

    People sometimes ask whether BSD too is a variant of GNU, as
    GNU/Linux is. It is not. The BSD developers were inspired to make
    their code free software by the example of the GNU Project, and
    explicit appeals from GNU activists helped convince them to start,
    but the code had little overlap with GNU.

    BSD systems today use some GNU packages, just as the GNU system and
    its variants use some BSD programs; however, taken as wholes, they
    are two different systems that evolved separately. The BSD
    developers did not write a kernel and add it to the GNU system, so a
    name like GNU/BSD would not fit the situation.

    The connection between GNU/Linux and GNU is much closer, and that's
    why the name "GNU/Linux" is appropriate for it.

    There is a version of GNU which uses the kernel from NetBSD. Its
    developers call it "Debian GNU/NetBSD", but "GNU/kernelofNetBSD"
    would be more accurate, since NetBSD is an entire system, not just
    the kernel. This is not a BSD system, since most of the system is
    the same as the GNU/Linux system.

    If I install the GNU tools on Windows, does that mean I am running a
    GNU/Windows system?

    Not in the same sense that we mean by "GNU/Linux". The tools of GNU
    are just a part of the GNU software, which is just a part of the GNU
    system, and underneath them you would still have another complete
    operating system which has no code in common with GNU. All in all,
    that's a very different situation from GNU/Linux.

I'll take this moment to say that I kind of laughed at something that
was said earlier.

##freebsd on Freenode

18:42 alrighty, just reading something on the gnu site saying no os is
named after it's kernel

18:42 thanks

18:42 BSD are NOT like linux, that is only a kernel and the O.S. is a
distribution of that kernel...

18:42 MTecknology: they're nuts, over there

    Can't there be Linux systems without GNU?

    It is possible to make a system that uses Linux as the kernel but is
    not based on GNU. I'm told there are small systems, used for
    embedded development, that include Linux but not the GNU system. IBM
    was once rumored to be planning to put Linux as the kernel into AIX;
    whether or not they actually tried to do this, it is theoretically
    possible. What conclusions can we draw from this about the naming of
    various systems?

    People who think of the kernel as more important than all the rest
    of the system say, "They all contain Linux, so let's call them all
    Linux systems." But any two of these systems are mostly different,
    and calling them by the same name is misleading. (It leads people to
    think that the kernel is more important than all the rest of the
    system, for instance.)

    In the small embedded systems, Linux may be most of the system;
    perhaps "Linux systems" is the right name for them. They are very
    different from GNU/Linux systems, which are more GNU than Linux. The
    hypothetical IBM system would be different from either of those. The
    right name for it would be AIX/Linux: basically AIX, but with Linux
    as the kernel. These different names would show users how these
    systems are different.

Many Linux systems exist without any GNU software in them. They did this
because of they way you pushed them away. You pushed be to trim as many
software applications from my Ubuntu system as I could. With no effort I
was down to only 8 GNU applications and with a little more digging I
pretty easily removed 3 more. So my Ubuntu system has 5 GNU applications
on it. I still need to call my system "GNU/Linux" by your standards? NO!
The kernel alone on my system weighs much heavier that these. So I need
to rebrand my system? No thanks.

    Why not call the system "Linux" anyway, and strengthen Linus
    Torvalds' role as posterboy for our community?

    Linus Torvalds is the "posterboy" (other people's choice of word,
    not ours) for his goals, not ours. His goal is to make the system
    more popular, and he believes its value to society lies merely in
    the practical advantages it offers: its power, reliability and easy
    availability. He has never advocated freedom to cooperate as an
    ethical principle, which is why the public does not connect the name
    "Linux" with that principle.

    Linus publicly states his disagreement with the free software
    movement's ideals. He developed non-free software in his job for
    many years (and said so to a large audience at a "Linux"World show),
    and publicly invited fellow developers of Linux, the kernel, to use
    non-free software to work on it with him. He goes even further, and
    rebukes people who suggest that engineers and scientists should
    consider social consequences of our technical work-rejecting the
    lessons society learned from the development of the atom bomb.

    There is nothing wrong with writing a free program for the
    motivations of learning and having fun; the kernel Linus wrote for
    those reasons was an important contribution to our community. But
    those motivations are not the reason why the complete free system,
    GNU/Linux, exists, and they won't secure our freedom in the future.
    The public needs to know this. Linus has the right to promote his
    views; however, people should be aware that the operating system in
    question stems from ideals of freedom, not from his views.

He doesn't voice his disagreements with free software ideals. He voices
his disagreement with your ideals. So does a large part of the FOSS
community.

On a side note: My company is working on a massive project that will
advocate and very quickly spread the usage of some FOSS applications.
Our goal is to position ourselves into a place where other FOSS
applications fitting into our criteria will want us to integrate their
tools into our system. However, it will be a long time after our public
release before we consider releasing source code. Does that mean you
want to fight us too? We're promoting FOSS but keeping some proprietary
code to do so.

That side note is where Linus is taking his views. He's known for a
sharp tongue that is very blunt, to the point, and honest. Maybe you
should listen to what he's saying instead of twisting his words.

    Isn't it wrong for us to label Linus Torvalds' work as GNU?

    It would be wrong, so we don't do that. Torvalds' work is Linux, the
    kernel; we are careful not to attribute that work to the GNU Project
    or label it as "GNU". When we talk about the whole system, the name
    "GNU/Linux" gives him a share of the credit.

Nah, you're not giving him enough credit. At least you haven't yet
reached the point of saying Linux is the work of GNU.

    Does Linus Torvalds agree that Linux is just the kernel?

    He recognized this at the beginning. The earliest Linux release
    notes said, "Most of the tools used with linux are GNU software and
    are under the GNU copyleft. These tools aren't in the distribution -
    ask me (or GNU) for more info".

    The battle is already lost-society has made its decision and we
    can't change it, so why even think about it?

    This isn't a battle, it is a campaign of education. What to call the
    system is not a single decision, to be made at one moment by
    "society": each person, each organization, can decide what name to
    use. You can't make others say "GNU/Linux", but you can decide to
    call the system "GNU/Linux" yourself-and by doing so, you will help
    educate others.

At the beginning Linux was just a kernel. He started porting some of the
work of GNU to it.

    Society has made its decision and we can't change it, so what good
    does it do if I say "GNU/Linux"?

    This is not an all-or-nothing situation: correct and incorrect
    pictures are being spread more or less by various people. If you
    call the system "GNU/Linux", you will help others learn the system's
    true history, origin, and reason for being. You can't correct the
    misnomer everywhere on your own, any more than we can, but you can
    help. If only a few hundred people see you use the term "GNU/Linux",
    you will have educated a substantial number of people with very
    little work. And some of them will spread the correction to others.

    Wouldn't it be better to call the system "Linux" and teach people
    its real origin with a ten-minute explanation?

    If you help us by explaining to others in that way, we appreciate
    your effort, but that is not the best method. It is not as effective
    as calling the system "GNU/Linux", and uses your time inefficiently.

    It is ineffective because it may not sink in, and surely will not
    propagate. Some of the people who hear your explanation will pay
    attention, and they may learn a correct picture of the system's
    origin. But they are unlikely to repeat the explanation to others
    whenever they talk about the system. They will probably just call it
    "Linux". Without particularly intending to, they will help spread
    the incorrect picture.

    It is inefficient because it takes a lot more time. Saying and
    writing "GNU/Linux" will take you only a few seconds a day, not
    minutes, so you can afford to reach far more people that way.
    Distinguishing between Linux and GNU/Linux when you write and speak
    is by far the easiest way to help the GNU Project effectively.

This is more of a call to action based on the above FUD.

    Some people laugh at you when you ask them to call the system
    GNU/Linux. Why do you subject yourself to this treatment?

    Calling the system "Linux" tends to give people a mistaken picture
    of the system's history and reason for existence. People who laugh
    at our request probably have picked up that mistaken picture-they
    think our work was done by Linus, so they laugh when we ask for
    credit for it. If they knew the truth, they probably wouldn't laugh.

    Why do we take the risk of making a request that sometimes leads
    people to ridicule us? Because often it has useful results that help
    the GNU Project. We will run the risk of undeserved abuse to achieve
    our goals.

    If you see such an ironically unfair situation occurring, please
    don't sit idly by. Please teach the laughing people the real
    history. When they see why the request is justified, those who have
    any sense will stop laughing.

The people that laugh are those that read through this FUD and know what
you guys are really like.

    Some people condemn you when you ask them to call the system
    GNU/Linux. Don't you lose by alienating them?

    Not much. People who don't appreciate our role in developing the
    system are unlikely to make substantial efforts to help us. If they
    do work that advances our goals, such as releasing free software, it
    is probably for other unrelated reasons, not because we asked them.
    Meanwhile, by teaching others to attribute our work to someone else,
    they are undermining our ability to recruit the help of others.

    It makes no sense to worry about alienating people who are already
    mostly uncooperative, and it is self-defeating to be deterred from
    correcting a major problem lest we anger the people who perpetuate
    it. Therefore, we will continue trying to correct the misnomer.

    Whatever you contributed, is it legitimate to rename the operating
    system?

    We are not renaming anything; we have been calling this system "GNU"
    ever since we announced it in 1983. The people who tried to rename
    it to "Linux" should not have done so.

    Isn't it wrong to force people to call the system "GNU/Linux"?

    It would be wrong to force them, and we don't try. We call the
    system "GNU/Linux", and we ask you to do it too.

Most of the substantial contributions did not even come from GNU. They
came from countless numbers of developers and other individuals.
Individuals that are part of the FOSS community which you oppose so
dearly.

    Why not sue people who call the whole system "Linux"?

    There are no legal grounds to sue them, but since we believe in
    freedom of speech, we wouldn't want to do that anyway. We ask people
    to call the system "GNU/Linux" because that is the right thing to
    do.

    Shouldn't you put something in the GNU GPL to require people to call
    the system "GNU"?

    The purpose of the GNU GPL is to protect the users' freedom from
    those who would make proprietary versions of free software. While it
    is true that those who call the system "Linux" often do things that
    limit the users' freedom, such as bundling non-free software with
    the GNU/Linux system or even developing non-free software for such
    use, the mere act of calling the system "Linux" does not, in itself,
    deny users their freedom. It seems improper to make the GPL restrict
    what name people can use for the system.

If you had the legal grounds I very much doubt you wouldn't have gove
after anyone and everyone by now. Besides, if you added that clause to
the GPL it's unlikely many users would continue to use the license which
is probably your most substantial contribution to the community.

    Since you objected to the original BSD license's advertising
    requirement to give credit to the University of California, isn't it
    hypocritical to demand credit for the GNU project?

    It would be hypocritical to make the name GNU/Linux a license
    requirement, and we don't. We only ask you to give us the credit we
    deserve.

    Since you failed to put something in the GNU GPL to require people
    to call the system "GNU", you deserve what happened; why are you
    complaining now?

    The question presupposes a rather controversial general ethical
    premise: that if people do not force you to treat them fairly, you
    are entitled to take advantage of them as much as you like. In other
    words, it assumes that might makes right.

    We hope you disagree with that premise just as we do.

It's also hypocritical to even make this expectation.

    Wouldn't you be better off not contradicting what so many people
    believe?

    We don't think we should go along with large numbers of people
    because they have been misled. We hope you too will decide that
    truth is important.

    We could never have developed a free operating system without first
    denying the belief, held by most people, that proprietary software
    was legitimate and acceptable.

Instead of going along with what is right, you'd rather continue to
mislead others. An interesting concept. You also couldn't develop a free
operating system (by your definition) with first denying the belief
you're referring to. You still havent (dead horse) finished your own GNU
OS.

    Since many people call it "Linux", doesn't that make it right?

    We don't think that the popularity of an error makes it the truth.

    Many people care about what's convenient or who's winning, not about
    arguments of right or wrong. Couldn't you get more of their support
    by a different road?

    To care only about what's convenient or who's winning is an amoral
    approach to life. Non-free software is an example of that amoral
    approach and thrives on it. So in the long run it is self-defeating
    for us to bow to that approach. We will continue talking in terms of
    right and wrong.

    We hope that you are one of those for whom right and wrong do
    matter.

The popularity has nothing to do with calling it "Linux." The reason we
use "Linux" is because all the above FUD reassures us that you're on a
whining power trip.

.. _Linux and the GNU Project: http://www.gnu.org/gnu/linux-and-gnu.html
.. _GNU/Linux FAQ by Richard Stallman: http://www.gnu.org/gnu/gnu-linux-faq.html
