Mister Jones
############
:desc: Trying to keep up with mister jones never ends well
:date: 2010-12-22 06:24
:tags: money, rant

It's always great to have the latest and greatest gadget. That new
netbook is so small and everyone else has it. The Droid does so many
cool things, even SSH. I deserve to have all of this cool stuff.

I'm getting rather annoyed with this attitude. Sure, I really want a
Droid. They are really amazing. My fianc√©e no doubt gets tired of
hearing me talk about things I'd like to have. However, I would only
'like' to have these. I'm not one to go on and say I 'need' or 'deserve'
them. When I talk about them, I'm describing what I would probably do
with unlimited money.

I try to save money because I know I'll need it. I hear so often that
I'm "so lucky because [you] don't have all these extra expenses." Here's
the deal though... You choose to take on those extra expenses.

One of the last people I got into this conversation with went on about
how they don't have enough income and can't support themselves. As they
were recently a business partner of mine, I knew exactly what they were
making. They were making (to the penny) exactly what I was making. I
mentioned this and this is where they said that I'm "lucky" that I don't
have a lot of extra expenses.

I asked about what expenses he had that I didn't. It interested me
because I just had over 25% of my monthly income go to car repairs. It
turns out the extra expenses were from partying, cable tv, movie
channels, a huge cell phone plan, driving around, and going out to eat.

Yup... I'm lucky that I don't have these; or maybe... just maybe... it's
because I "choose" to not shit my money away. I have the lowest cell
phone plan I could get by with (without overages). I don't waste money
on booze or cable tv. I do spend money on Internet, but I have the
lowest plan that I need to get done what I need to.

The point I'm going after is this... If you're going to complain about
money, then I'm going to ask you what you're spending it on. If you give
me crap like a new tv, cable, alcohol, etc. then you better not be
expecting me to give a crap.

It's actually very common for me to hear this so I decided I'm just
going to go on a rant about it. :)
